Context of data

The process of dealing with data involves interpretation and design decisions, which is subjective and prone to human bias. When faced with data, we have the urge to filter, condense the data and extract certain insights from them. In doing so, the data we collect collapse to fit into a mathematical model. In this process, it is in a way more like data correspond to models than models approximate data. The meaning of data collapse from something closely related to real life to a regression line. nuances and complexity are neglected. Some attributes are mistakenly seen as equivalent and indicative to their far more layered real life counterparts. To reflect the vivid existence of something, the process of dealing with data needs to be more meticulously and carefully designed. (however I think it is almost inevitable that data would lose at least some of the real-life volume in translation. It is like making a taxidermy out of an animal. There’s plenty to consider and much more to avoid in order to revert data into what the subject’s true looks.) Data is a narrative that should be situated and reflective, much like a documentary film. Without the consideration of context, the data could reflect something distorted or meaningless.

Last year in august a post went viral in the Chinese internet. The post contains screenshots of data analysis and provides the conclusion that ENS paris, a prestigious graduate school, after canceling interviews in the admission process, shows a significant rise in female admittees.  However upon further investigation, this conclusion is stripped out of context that: 1) EMS paris only has a population of 60 to 70 people each academic year. 2) the statistic 78%(female admission rate) in the post are solely for one major. This major had a female admission rate of 65% in 2019, which does not demonstrate an outstanding or abnormal rise considering population. 3)a research in 2015 demonstrates that interviews’ bias would tilt in favor of balancing gender equality in admission. This example shows stripping out of context more in the sense of interpreting data.

Data companies have been improving polls and predictions of president election, for example taking into consideration vote by mail errors. In 2016, multiple data companies overestimate the possibility of Hilary getting elected, because their polls were lacking statistics from population in the rural areas and with lower education, and they did not consider a weighted poll model based on education level. This shows that in order to map out the real-life landscape of a certain subject, dealing with data requires the consideration of complexity, multitudes, nuances.
