
In the podcast Right to be Forgotten, it focuses more on the publication industry and news industry which I would like to categorize as a secondary reach, a downstream of public records. Individual’s experiences are highlighted after already being made somehow visible. In this case, I think publicizing a news story is “unforgiving” in the first place, because it subjects the main characters of the news piece to attention and consequences like newton’s free fall. In terms of human memory, an event’s effect can be described as nonrecurring and its content almost ceases to exist when you are not actively (though can be unconsciously) “looking”. But a public record’s content is continuous, its existence makes the individual in question continuously <i>being looked</i>, remaining in the public’s eyesight. A public record’s effect is long lasting, recurring, the attention it brings to the “main characters” has waves that could die down or come back indefinitely. The “memory-like” effect of the public record can be <i>terminated</i> but not <i>retracted</i>. I agree very much with “putting them in the shoebox and stashing them in the attic”, which I understand to be making public certain data (in its primary form) but not highlighting them. This is not to say that the news industry should not cover news about individuals. The dilemma lies in the contradiction of news being both temporal and traceable, thus “permanent”.

The principle of executing “the right to be forgotten” is to be flexible but cautious, the termination of a public record should be allowed and carefully considered. I think legal data for example like court records, criminal records and company registration data should be searchable and public on official sites. However in terms of what else is defined as public data, I am not so sure. It is certain that public data does not equal to data that are public.

- The website 民科维基(min ke wiki, “the wiki of self-proclaimed scientists”) http://www.minkewiki.org/ documents the biography of Chinese self-proclaimed scientists who are notorious for their ridiculous scientific arguments and over the top actions. The wiki includes famous ones, and also internet-famous ones whose information are mostly collected by netizens through their online presence. Some wiki pages includes very detailed personal information that are found in some nook of some online post ten years ago (it is naming aliases and realnames, naming universities, hometowns and posting pictures, email addresses), considering some of these people are actually no-one offline. This website could qualify as an online public database, however part of the data is compiled and scraped from “data that are public”. This sparks the question that, who should be compiling “public records” and how should it be compiled?
